The chmod command is used in Linux and Unix systems to change access permissions for files and directories. Permissions define who is allowed to read, modify, or execute a file, and they are one of the core mechanisms used by the operating system to maintain security and control access.

To understand how chmod works, it is important first to understand how permissions are structured and what information you see when using the ll command.

Understanding Permissions in Linux

Every file and directory in Linux has three categories of users that can interact with it:

Owner (user) – the person who created or owns the file
Group – a collection of users that share access rights
Others – everyone else on the system
Each of these categories can have different permissions.
What the ll Command Shows

The command:
ll


is simply an alias for:
ls -l


It displays files and directories with detailed information, including permissions, owner, group, size, and modification date.

For example, you might see something like this:
-rwxr-xr-- 1 hacker users 1234 Feb 14 10:00 script.sh

Let’s break this down.
The Permission String
The first part:
-rwxr-xr--


represents permissions and file type.

It is divided into four sections:

-   rwx   r-x   r--
│   │     │     │
│   │     │     └── permissions for others
│   │     └──────── permissions for the group
│   └────────────── permissions for the owner
└────────────────── file type

File Type

The very first character indicates the file type:
- means a regular file
d means a directory
l means a symbolic link
Permission Letters

Each group contains three characters representing permissions:
r means read permission
w means write permission
x means execute permission
- means the permission is not granted

Practical Example
If the permissions are:
-rwxr-xr--


This means:

- The owner can read, write, and execute the file
- The group can read and execute but cannot write
- Others can only read the file
- What the chmod Command Does
- The chmod command allows you to modify these permissions. There are two main ways to use it: numeric mode and symbolic mode.

Numeric Mode
In numeric mode, each permission is represented by a number:

Permission	Value
Read	4
Write	2
Execute	1

Permissions are calculated by adding these values together.

For example:
rwx equals 7 (4 + 2 + 1)
r-x equals 5 (4 + 1)
r-- equals 4

Example Usage
chmod 754 file.txt

This sets:
- Owner permissions to 7 (read, write, execute)
- Group permissions to 5 (read and execute)
- Others permissions to 4 (read only)
- Symbolic Mode

Permissions can also be modified using letters that represent user categories:

Symbol	Meaning
u	user (owner)
g	group
o	others
a	all users
Example Commands

Give execute permission to the owner:
chmod u+x script.sh


Remove write permission from others:
chmod o-w file.txt

Give read permission to everyone:
chmod a+r file.txt
Permissions on Directories

Permissions behave slightly differently for directories:
Read (r) allows users to view the directory contents
Write (w) allows users to create or delete files inside the directory
Execute (x) allows users to enter or access the directory
For example, if a directory has:
drwx------

Only the owner can access it.
Practical Example
First, create a file:
touch example.txt

Then check its permissions:
ll example.txt

You might see:
-rw-r--r--

This means the owner can read and write, while everyone else can only read.

If you want to make the file executable, you can run:
chmod +x example.txt

After this, the permissions might look like:
-rwxr-xr-x

In this challenge you need to change the permission of the secret_flag. if you would like to test the command you can do it on the fake_flag file
